BUILDING.md, before:

# Building Android GPU Inspector

AGI uses the [Bazel build system](https://bazel.build/). The recommended version of Bazel is **2.0.0**.

Bazel is able to fetch most of the dependencies required to build AGI, but currently the Android SDK and NDK both need to be downloaded and installed by hand.

Please see the following OS specific guides for setting up the build environment.

After setting up the build environment, AGI can be built in a terminal with:

```
cd <path-to-agi-source>
bazel build pkg
```

The build output will be at `<path-to-agi-source>/bazel-bin/pkg`.

---

## Windows

### Install Chocolatey

[Follow these instructions](https://chocolatey.org/install) to install Chocolatey.

### Install Bazel

Start a console, with administrator privilege, and type:

`choco install bazel --version 2.0.0`

In the same console, install Python 2.7 and MSYS2 as well:

`choco install python2`
`choco install msys2`

### Install additional tools

Using the msys64 shell (installed by choco at `C:\tools\msys64\mingw64`):
1. Update MSYS with: `pacman -Syu`.
2. If the update ends with “close the window and run it again”, close and reopen the window and repeat 1.
3. Fetch required tools with: `pacman -S curl git zip unzip patch`
4. Download gcc with: `curl -O http://repo.msys2.org/mingw/x86_64/mingw-w64-x86_64-gcc-9.2.0-2-any.pkg.tar.xz`
5. Download gcc-libs with: `curl -O http://repo.msys2.org/mingw/x86_64/mingw-w64-x86_64-gcc-libs-9.2.0-2-any.pkg.tar.xz`
6. Install gcc with: `pacman -U mingw-w64-x86_64-gcc*-9.2.0-2-any.pkg.tar.xz`
7. Close the MSYS terminal

### Install Java Development Kit 8

A JDK is required to build the user interface. If you do not already have a JDK installed, you can [install OpenJDK from here](https://adoptopenjdk.net) (good defaults are version 8 and Hotspot JVM).

Make sure the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable points to the JDK.

### Install Android SDK and NDK

Unzip the [Android SDK](https://dl.google.com/android/repository/sdk-tools-windows-3859397.zip) to a directory of your choosing.

To fetch the required packages, using a console type:

```
cd <sdk-path>
tools\bin\sdkmanager.bat "platforms;android-26" "build-tools;29.0.2" ndk-bundle
```

Note: this will install the latest NDK in `<sdk-path>\ndk-bundle`. The minimum required version of the NDK is **r21**.

If you do not have adb installed you can do so with:
```
cd <sdk-path>
tools\bin\sdkmanager.bat platform-tools
```

### Configure the environment

Either do this globally or in your shell every time.

Make sure the environment is setup before you run bazel (`bazel shutdown` will shut it down).

1. Add `C:\tools\msys64\mingw64` to the PATH:
   `set PATH=C:\tools\msys64\mingw64\bin;%PATH%`
   Running `where gcc` should now find mingw’s gcc.

1. Add `C:\tools\python27` to the PATH:
   `set PATH=C:\tools\python27;%PATH%`
   Alternatively, pass the path to python via the `--python_path` to bazel. See the [bazel documentation](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/windows.html#build-python) for more info.

1. Set TMP to something very short. `C:\tmp` is known to work. For faster builds, add this folder to the excemptions of the Windows Defender anti-malware scanner.

The following environment variables will need to be set prior to building:

| Variable            | Target                             |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `ANDROID_HOME`      | Path to Android SDK                |
| `ANDROID_NDK_HOME`  | Path to Android NDK                |
| `BAZEL_SH`          | `C:\tools\msys64\usr\bin\bash.exe` |
| `TMP`               | `C:\tmp`                           |

---

## MacOS

### Install Bazel

Follow the [MacOS Bazel Install](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/install-os-x.html) directions to install bazel.

### Install Java Development Kit 8

A JDK is required to build the user interface. If you do not already have a JDK installed, you can [install OpenJDK from here](https://adoptopenjdk.net) (good defaults are version 8 and Hotspot JVM).

Make sure the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable points to the JDK.

### Install Android SDK and NDK

Unzip the [Android SDK](https://dl.google.com/android/repository/sdk-tools-darwin-3859397.zip) to a directory of your choosing.

To fetch the required packages, using a console type:

```
cd <sdk-path>
tools/bin/sdkmanager "platforms;android-26" "build-tools;29.0.2" ndk-bundle
```

Note: this will install the latest NDK in `<sdk-path>/ndk-bundle`. The minimum required version of the NDK is r16b.

If you do not have adb installed you can do so with:
```
cd <sdk-path>
tools/bin/sdkmanager platform-tools
```

### Install the XCode command line tools

After installing, ensure the XCode license is signed with:

```
sudo xcode-select -s /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer
sudo xcodebuild -license
```

### Increase the maximum number of OS file handles

Bazel can concurrently use more file handles than the OS supports by default. This can be easily fixed by typing:

```
sudo sysctl -w kern.maxfiles=122880
sudo sysctl -w kern.maxfilesperproc=102400
echo ulimit -S -n 102400 >> ~/.bashrc
```

### Configure the environment

Either do this globally or in your shell every time.

Make sure the environment is setup before you run bazel (`bazel shutdown` will shut it down).

The following environment variables will need to be set prior to building:

| Variable            | Target               |
| ------------------- | -------------------- |
| `ANDROID_HOME`      | Path to Android SDK  |
| `ANDROID_NDK_HOME`  | Path to Android NDK  |

---

## Linux

### Install Bazel

Follow the [Ubuntu Bazel Install](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/install-ubuntu.html) or the[Fedora/CentOS Bazel Install](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/install-redhat.html) directions to install bazel.

Alternatively, bazel can be downloaded from its [GitHub Releases Page](https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel/releases).

### Install Java Development Kit 8

A JDK is required to build the user interface. If you do not already have a JDK installed, you can [install OpenJDK from here](https://adoptopenjdk.net) (good defaults are version 8 and Hotspot JVM).

Make sure the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable points to the JDK.

### Install Android SDK and NDK

Unzip the [Android SDK](https://dl.google.com/android/repository/sdk-tools-linux-3859397.zip) to a directory of your choosing.

To fetch the required packages, using a console type:

```
cd <sdk-path>
tools/bin/sdkmanager "platforms;android-26" "build-tools;29.0.2" ndk-bundle
```

Note: this will install the latest NDK in `<sdk-path>/ndk-bundle`. The minimum required version of the NDK is r16b.

If you do not have adb installed you can do so with:
```
cd <sdk-path>
tools/bin/sdkmanager platform-tools
```

### Install other libraries

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install mesa-common-dev libncurses5-dev libgl1-mesa-dev zlib1g-dev
```

### Configure the environment

Either do this globally or in your shell every time.

Make sure the environment is setup before you run bazel (`bazel shutdown` will shut it down).

The following environment variables will need to be set prior to building:

| Variable            | Target              |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| `ANDROID_HOME`      | Path to Android SDK |
| `ANDROID_NDK_HOME`  | Path to Android NDK |

Commit message:

Update build doc: NDK r21, and expected Bazel warning
Related: #305

BUILDING.md, after:

# Building Android GPU Inspector

AGI uses the [Bazel build system](https://bazel.build/). The recommended version of Bazel is **2.0.0**.

Bazel is able to fetch most of the dependencies required to build AGI, but currently the Android SDK and NDK both need to be downloaded and installed by hand.

Please see the following OS specific guides for setting up the build environment.

After setting up the build environment, AGI can be built in a terminal with:

```
cd <path-to-agi-source>
bazel build pkg
```

> :warning: We currently use NDK r21 to have access to the unified Khronos
> validation layer. Bazel 2.0.0 has no official support for r21, so **the
> following build warning is expected and can be ignored:**
>
> ```
> WARNING: The major revision of the Android NDK referenced by
> android_ndk_repository rule 'androidndk' is 21. The major
> revisions supported by Bazel are [10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
> 17, 18, 19, 20]. Bazel will attempt to treat the NDK as if it
> was r20. This may cause compilation and linkage problems.
> Please download a supported NDK version.
> ```
>
> This issue is tracked by https://github.com/google/agi/issues/305

The build output will be at `<path-to-agi-source>/bazel-bin/pkg`.

---

## Windows

### Install Chocolatey

[Follow these instructions](https://chocolatey.org/install) to install Chocolatey.

### Install Bazel

Start a console, with administrator privilege, and type:

`choco install bazel --version 2.0.0`

In the same console, install Python 2.7 and MSYS2 as well:

`choco install python2`
`choco install msys2`

### Install additional tools

Using the msys64 shell (installed by choco at `C:\tools\msys64\mingw64`):
1. Update MSYS with: `pacman -Syu`.
2. If the update ends with “close the window and run it again”, close and reopen the window and repeat 1.
3. Fetch required tools with: `pacman -S curl git zip unzip patch`
4. Download gcc with: `curl -O http://repo.msys2.org/mingw/x86_64/mingw-w64-x86_64-gcc-9.2.0-2-any.pkg.tar.xz`
5. Download gcc-libs with: `curl -O http://repo.msys2.org/mingw/x86_64/mingw-w64-x86_64-gcc-libs-9.2.0-2-any.pkg.tar.xz`
6. Install gcc with: `pacman -U mingw-w64-x86_64-gcc*-9.2.0-2-any.pkg.tar.xz`
7. Close the MSYS terminal

### Install Java Development Kit 8

A JDK is required to build the user interface. If you do not already have a JDK installed, you can [install OpenJDK from here](https://adoptopenjdk.net) (good defaults are version 8 and Hotspot JVM).

Make sure the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable points to the JDK.

### Install Android SDK and NDK

Unzip the [Android SDK](https://dl.google.com/android/repository/sdk-tools-windows-3859397.zip) to a directory of your choosing.

To fetch the required packages, using a console type:

```
cd <sdk-path>
tools\bin\sdkmanager.bat "platforms;android-26" "build-tools;29.0.2" ndk-bundle
```

Note: this will install the latest NDK in `<sdk-path>\ndk-bundle`. The recommended version of the NDK is **r21**.

If you do not have adb installed you can do so with:
```
cd <sdk-path>
tools\bin\sdkmanager.bat platform-tools
```

### Configure the environment

Either do this globally or in your shell every time.

Make sure the environment is setup before you run bazel (`bazel shutdown` will shut it down).

1. Add `C:\tools\msys64\mingw64` to the PATH:
   `set PATH=C:\tools\msys64\mingw64\bin;%PATH%`
   Running `where gcc` should now find mingw’s gcc.

1. Add `C:\tools\python27` to the PATH:
   `set PATH=C:\tools\python27;%PATH%`
   Alternatively, pass the path to python via the `--python_path` to bazel. See the [bazel documentation](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/windows.html#build-python) for more info.

1. Set TMP to something very short. `C:\tmp` is known to work. For faster builds, add this folder to the excemptions of the Windows Defender anti-malware scanner.

The following environment variables will need to be set prior to building:

| Variable            | Target                             |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `ANDROID_HOME`      | Path to Android SDK                |
| `ANDROID_NDK_HOME`  | Path to Android NDK                |
| `BAZEL_SH`          | `C:\tools\msys64\usr\bin\bash.exe` |
| `TMP`               | `C:\tmp`                           |

---

## MacOS

### Install Bazel

Follow the [MacOS Bazel Install](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/install-os-x.html) directions to install bazel.

### Install Java Development Kit 8

A JDK is required to build the user interface. If you do not already have a JDK installed, you can [install OpenJDK from here](https://adoptopenjdk.net) (good defaults are version 8 and Hotspot JVM).

Make sure the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable points to the JDK.

### Install Android SDK and NDK

Unzip the [Android SDK](https://dl.google.com/android/repository/sdk-tools-darwin-3859397.zip) to a directory of your choosing.

To fetch the required packages, using a console type:

```
cd <sdk-path>
tools/bin/sdkmanager "platforms;android-26" "build-tools;29.0.2" ndk-bundle
```

Note: this will install the latest NDK in `<sdk-path>/ndk-bundle`. The recommended version of the NDK is **r21**.

If you do not have adb installed you can do so with:
```
cd <sdk-path>
tools/bin/sdkmanager platform-tools
```

### Install the XCode command line tools

After installing, ensure the XCode license is signed with:

```
sudo xcode-select -s /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer
sudo xcodebuild -license
```

### Increase the maximum number of OS file handles

Bazel can concurrently use more file handles than the OS supports by default. This can be easily fixed by typing:

```
sudo sysctl -w kern.maxfiles=122880
sudo sysctl -w kern.maxfilesperproc=102400
echo ulimit -S -n 102400 >> ~/.bashrc
```

### Configure the environment

Either do this globally or in your shell every time.

Make sure the environment is setup before you run bazel (`bazel shutdown` will shut it down).

The following environment variables will need to be set prior to building:

| Variable            | Target               |
| ------------------- | -------------------- |
| `ANDROID_HOME`      | Path to Android SDK  |
| `ANDROID_NDK_HOME`  | Path to Android NDK  |

---

## Linux

### Install Bazel

Follow the [Ubuntu Bazel Install](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/install-ubuntu.html) or the[Fedora/CentOS Bazel Install](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/install-redhat.html) directions to install bazel.

Alternatively, bazel can be downloaded from its [GitHub Releases Page](https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel/releases).

### Install Java Development Kit 8

A JDK is required to build the user interface. If you do not already have a JDK installed, you can [install OpenJDK from here](https://adoptopenjdk.net) (good defaults are version 8 and Hotspot JVM).

Make sure the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable points to the JDK.

### Install Android SDK and NDK

Unzip the [Android SDK](https://dl.google.com/android/repository/sdk-tools-linux-3859397.zip) to a directory of your choosing.

To fetch the required packages, using a console type:

```
cd <sdk-path>
tools/bin/sdkmanager "platforms;android-26" "build-tools;29.0.2" ndk-bundle
```

Note: this will install the latest NDK in `<sdk-path>/ndk-bundle`. The recommended version of the NDK is **r21**.

If you do not have adb installed you can do so with:
```
cd <sdk-path>
tools/bin/sdkmanager platform-tools
```

### Install other libraries

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install mesa-common-dev libncurses5-dev libgl1-mesa-dev zlib1g-dev
```

### Configure the environment

Either do this globally or in your shell every time.

Make sure the environment is setup before you run bazel (`bazel shutdown` will shut it down).

The following environment variables will need to be set prior to building:

| Variable            | Target              |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| `ANDROID_HOME`      | Path to Android SDK |
| `ANDROID_NDK_HOME`  | Path to Android NDK |
