DEVDOC.md, before:

# Android GPU Inspector Developer Documentation

## Setup Golang development

This project contains Golang code, but it does not have the file hierarchy of
regular Golang projects (this is due to the use of Bazel as a build system).
The `cmd/gofuse` utility enables to re-create the file hierarchy expected by Go
tools:

```sh
# Make sure to build to have all compile-time generated files
cd <path-to-agi-source>
bazel build pkg

# Prepare a agi-gofuse directory **outside of the AGI checkout directory**
mkdir <path-outside-agi-source>/agi-gofuse

# Run gofuse with the previous directory as a target
bazel run //cmd/gofuse -- -dir <path-to-agi-gofuse>

# If you build with bazel build -c dbg pkg, the <path-to-bazelout> is `k8-dbg` on Linux.
bazel run //cmd/gofuse -- -dir <path-to-agi-gofuse> -bazelout <path-to-bazelout>

# Add agi-gofuse directory to your GOPATH environment variable.
# On Linux, with a bash shell, you can add the following to your ~/.bashrc file:
export GOPATH="${GOPATH:+${GOPATH}:}<path-to-agi-gofuse>"
# On other configurations, please search online how to add/edit environment variables.
```

If you encounter a symlink error on Windows like 'a required privilege is not held by the client',
you have to use a command prompt with administrator privileges or enable
[Developer Mode](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/get-started/enable-your-device-for-development)
as described [here](https://blogs.windows.com/windowsdeveloper/2016/12/02/symlinks-windows-10/).

After adding the gofuse directory to your GOPATH, Go tools should work as
expected. You can edit files under the newly populated gofuse directory. You
should still compile under the original AGI checkout directory.

> Despite its name, the gofuse command does NOT use FUSE (filesystem in userspace).
> It just creates directories and links to source files, including generated files.
> It is a good idea to re-run gofuse from time to time, to re-sync links to potential
> new files.

In terms of editor, [VsCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) has good Go support
thanks to its
[Go extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.Go).
With the GOPATH setup to gofuse and opening the `<path-to-agi-gofuse>` directory,
as the root of your workspace, you should get some jump-to-definition and autocomplete
features working. Make sure to edit the files through their link found under the gofuse directory.

## How to debug / breakpoint in Golang code

The recommended Golang debugger is
[delve](https://github.com/go-delve/delve). You can start a **debug** build of
gapis or a client under this debugger. To build in debug mode, use the `-c dbg`
Bazel flag, e.g.:

```
bazel build -c dbg pkg
```

### Debugging GAPIS

To debug gapis, you can do:

```
dlv exec ./bazel-bin/pkg/gapis -- -enable-local-files -persist -rpc localhost:8888
```

You can then use dlv commands to add breakpoints, and actually start GAPIS, e.g.:

```
(dlv) break gapis/server/server.go:228

(dlv) continue  # this actually starts gapis
```

> See delve documentation on how to specify a breakpoint location, there are
> more convenient alternatives than `path/to/file:line`

Once gapis is started, you can run a client to interact with it and hit somes
breakpoints:

```
# in another terminal
./bazel-bin/pkg/gapit <verb> -gapis-port 8888 <verb args>
```

### Debugging a client

If you want to debug a client like gapit, just start it under dlv:

```
dlv exec ./bazel-bin/pkg/gapit <verb> <verb args>
```

### Use a Delve init script

To automate a delve startup sequence, you can edit a script of delve commands to
be executed when delve starts. The script looks like:

```
# This is a comment.
break gapis/server/server.go:228

# add a second breakpoint, with a condition for it to trigger
break gapis/foo/bar.go:123
condition 2 some_variable == 42

# launch program
continue
```

And you can pass this script to delve using the `--init` flag:

```
dlv exec --init my-delve-init-script.txt <program to debug...>
```

### Integration with an IDE

If you want to interact with the debugger via your editor or IDE, be aware that
delve will think file paths start from the AGI top directory, and not your
root directory. This is very likely due to Bazel compilation. You may have to
find workarounds if you call delve from an editor/IDE which consider the file
paths to start from another directory, typically your root directory. There may
be a way to adjust using GOPATH to tell to your IDE a possible root for filename
lookups.

See the workaround for VSCode below, any help to fix it for other IDEs is very welcome!

#### Integration with VSCode and Delve

Follow these steps to use the delve debugger for Go with VSCode to debug `gapis`.

1. Make sure to complete the Golang setup above for AGI.

2. Settings file: There are two settings file(`settings.json`) that can be written.
	- Global one that applies to all projects that can be opened with `Ctrl + Shift + P` and `Preferences: Open Settings (JSON)`. 
	Add this line to ensure that you have a stable tools directory:
	`"go.toolsGopath": "<path-to-go-plugin-tools-folder>",`
	
	- Local one is under `.vscode` folder in your project folder. Create one if it does not already exist and add this line to your local settings to be able to search source code in AGI:
	`"go.gopath": "<path-to-agi-gofuse>"`,

3. Launch file: Create a `launch.json` file under the workspace directory with `Ctrl + Shift + P` and `Debug: Open launch.json`

4. Paste the following as one of the launch configurations. This will ensure that there is a launch configuration for attaching to Delve.
```
{
    ...
    "configurations": [
        ...,
        {
            "name": "Attach to Delve",
            "type": "go",
            "request": "attach",
            "mode": "remote",
            "apiVersion": 2,
            "remotePath": "",
            "cwd": "`<path-to-agi-gofuse>`",
            "dlvLoadConfig": {
                "followPointers": true,
                "maxVariableRecurse": 1,
                "maxStringLen": 120,
                "maxArrayValues": 120,
                "maxStructFields": -1
            },
            "host": <host>,
            "port": <port>,
        },
    ],
    ...
}
```
As an example, `<host>` could be `127.0.0.1` and `<port>` could be `1234`.

5. Start delve in headless mode in the AGI root folder.
```
dlv exec --headless --listen=<host>:<port> --api-version 2 ./bazel-bin/pkg/gapis -- <gapis-arguments>
```

The command below will allow using port `1234` (or any other preferred port) to connect to delve from VSCode.
```
dlv exec --headless --listen=127.0.0.1:1234 --api-version 2 ./bazel-bin/pkg/gapis -- -persist -rpc localhost:8888
```

6. Start debugging with `Debug->Start Debugging` (on Linux with `F5`) and make sure `Attach to Delve` is selected as the launch configuration.

7. Now VSCode can interact with Delve and can be used for debugging `gapis` in VSCode UI instead of the command line. Enjoy your debugging :)

This allows you to put breakpoint at any line in AGI Go source code regardless if they are handwritten, generated or in Go Standard Library. For the generated file, you can put the breakpoints under the `bazel-bin/` or `bazel-out/` folder and the debugger will still find it under the fuse directory during debugging and open it. The only downside is you will have two versions of the same file but this is the only working workaround until Go Plugin supports bazel-generated files.

## How to debug via printing message

You can use the built-in logging functions to place debug prints.

In Golang:

```go
import (
	// ...
	"github.com/google/gapid/core/log"
)

// ...
	log.E(ctx, "Here debug print, myVar: %v", myVar)
```

In C++:

```c++
#include "core/cc/log.h"

// ...
    GAPID_ERROR("Here debug print, myStr: %s", myStr)
```

The usual logging levels are available, listed for instance with `gapit -fullhelp`:

```
$ ./bazel-bin/pkg/gapit -fullhelp
...
-log-level value
	The severity to enable logs at [one of: "Verbose", "Debug", "Info", "Warning", "Error", "Fatal"] (default Info)
```

The Error level is recommended when adding debug print, to make sure it is not
filtered away.

## How to profile AGI internals

### GAPIS

The server has instrumentation to output profiling information:

```
$ ./agi/gapis --fullhelp
[...]
  -profile-pprof
	enable pprof profiling
  -profile-trace string
	write a trace to file
[...]
```

The `-profile-trace` option generates a trace that can be open in Chrome via
`chrome://tracing`, or using [Perfetto web UI](https://ui.perfetto.dev/).

The `gapit` and `agi` (UI starter) clients can pass these arguments to gapis via
`-gapis-args`, e.g.:

```
# GAPIT
./agi/gapit <verb> -gapis-args '-profile-trace my-profile-trace.out' <verb arguments>

# GAPIC
./agi/agi -gapis-args '-profile-trace my-profile-trace.out' foobar.gfxtrace
```

### On-device: GAPII, GAPIR

To profile the interceptor GAPII and the replayer GAPIR on Android devices, you
can resort to classic profiling solutions. Check the Android [system tracing
overview](https://developer.android.com/topic/performance/tracing) doc. Beside
systrace, perfetto and the Android studio profile, also note that
[Inferno](https://android.googlesource.com/platform/system/extras/+/master/simpleperf/doc/inferno.md)
makes it easy to get flamegraphs.

To profile the replayer using AGI itself, you can export a given replay into a
standalone APK (using `gapit export_replay -apk`), and profile that replay-APK
using AGI.

## Unit tests

Unit testing is achieved with separate frameworks depending on the programming
language, but they are all accessible with Bazel.

### List tests

```sh
# List all tests
bazel query 'tests(//...)'

# List all Go tests
bazel query 'kind(go_.*, tests(//...))'
# List all C++ tests
bazel query 'kind(cc_.*, tests(//...))'
```

### Run tests

```sh
# Run all the tests
bazel test tests

# Run a given test
bazel test //core/log:go_default_test
```

### Golang

Following the [regular Go test](https://golang.org/doc/code.html#Testing) setup,
tests are written as `func TestXXX(t *testing.T)` functions in `*_test.go`
files.

Adding a Go test file into Bazel is done by invoking Gazelle. The
`kokoro/presubmit/presubmit.sh` script does that for you: if you create or
remove `*_test.go` files, running the presubmit script automatically edit the
BUILD.bazel files to reflect your changes.

A few useful homemade packages:

- `github.com/google/gapid/core/assert` defines an assertion framework.

- `github.com/google/gapid/core/log` lets you create contexts for tests with
  `ctx := log.Testing(t)`

### C++

> TODO

### Java

> TODO

## Code generated at compile time

A large amount of code is generated at compile time. Code is typically generated
via APIC (API Compiler, `cmd/apic/`). APIC takes as input `.api` and `.tmpl`
files, and it generates code in another language.

```

                    +----------+
  <.api files>  --->|          |
                    |   APIC   |---> <generated files>
  <.tmpl files> --->|          |
                    +----------+

```

`.api` files are GAPIL ("graphics API language") sources. GAPIL is a
domain-specific language to specify a graphics API, it is documented in
`gapil/README.md`. AGI currently supports only Vulkan, but its ancestor GAPID
was designed to support arbitrary graphics APIs. Vulkan is described by API files
located under `gapis/api/vulkan/`, the top-level file is
`gapis/api/vulkan/vulkan.api`.

`.tmpl` files are template files. The templating language is documented in
`gapis/api/templates/README.md`. There are various template files in the project
to generate code for the interceptor, server, replayer, Vulkan layers, etc.

APIC is a GAPIL compiler, its entry-point is defined in `cmd/apic/` and the
actual compiler logic is defined in `gapil/`. In a nutshell, APIC parses the
`.api` files to gather information about the graphics API, and then instantiates
the templates in the `.tmpl` files to generate code.

### Where does the generated code end up?

The generated code is not checked under version control. It is generated at
compilation time by Bazel rules calling APIC, resulting in files that can be
seen under e.g. `bazel-bin/`.

For instance, generated C++ code for the interceptor can be found in:

```
user@machine:~/work/agi$ find -L bazel-bin -name '*_spy_*.cpp'
bazel-bin/gapii/cc/vulkan_spy_0.cpp
bazel-bin/gapii/cc/vulkan_spy_subroutines_1.cpp
bazel-bin/gapii/cc/vulkan_spy_subroutines_0.cpp
bazel-bin/gapii/cc/vulkan_spy_2.cpp
bazel-bin/gapii/cc/vulkan_spy_3.cpp
bazel-bin/gapii/cc/vulkan_spy_helpers.cpp
bazel-bin/gapii/cc/vulkan_spy_1.cpp
```

To get a unified file tree view, interleaving source files with generated files,
you can use the `cmd/gofuse` setup. `cmd/gofuse` links the generated source
files in the same directories as their siblings in the same packages/namespaces.

Commit message:

Document how to debug a replay crash
Bug: n/a

DEVDOC.md, after:

# Android GPU Inspector Developer Documentation

## Setup Golang development

This project contains Golang code, but it does not have the file hierarchy of
regular Golang projects (this is due to the use of Bazel as a build system).
The `cmd/gofuse` utility enables to re-create the file hierarchy expected by Go
tools:

```sh
# Make sure to build to have all compile-time generated files
cd <path-to-agi-source>
bazel build pkg

# Prepare a agi-gofuse directory **outside of the AGI checkout directory**
mkdir <path-outside-agi-source>/agi-gofuse

# Run gofuse with the previous directory as a target
bazel run //cmd/gofuse -- -dir <path-to-agi-gofuse>

# If you build with bazel build -c dbg pkg, the <path-to-bazelout> is `k8-dbg` on Linux.
bazel run //cmd/gofuse -- -dir <path-to-agi-gofuse> -bazelout <path-to-bazelout>

# Add agi-gofuse directory to your GOPATH environment variable.
# On Linux, with a bash shell, you can add the following to your ~/.bashrc file:
export GOPATH="${GOPATH:+${GOPATH}:}<path-to-agi-gofuse>"
# On other configurations, please search online how to add/edit environment variables.
```

If you encounter a symlink error on Windows like 'a required privilege is not held by the client',
you have to use a command prompt with administrator privileges or enable
[Developer Mode](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/get-started/enable-your-device-for-development)
as described [here](https://blogs.windows.com/windowsdeveloper/2016/12/02/symlinks-windows-10/).

After adding the gofuse directory to your GOPATH, Go tools should work as
expected. You can edit files under the newly populated gofuse directory. You
should still compile under the original AGI checkout directory.

> Despite its name, the gofuse command does NOT use FUSE (filesystem in userspace).
> It just creates directories and links to source files, including generated files.
> It is a good idea to re-run gofuse from time to time, to re-sync links to potential
> new files.

In terms of editor, [VsCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) has good Go support
thanks to its
[Go extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.Go).
With the GOPATH setup to gofuse and opening the `<path-to-agi-gofuse>` directory,
as the root of your workspace, you should get some jump-to-definition and autocomplete
features working. Make sure to edit the files through their link found under the gofuse directory.

## How to debug / breakpoint in Golang code

The recommended Golang debugger is
[delve](https://github.com/go-delve/delve). You can start a **debug** build of
gapis or a client under this debugger. To build in debug mode, use the `-c dbg`
Bazel flag, e.g.:

```
bazel build -c dbg pkg
```

### Debugging GAPIS

To debug gapis, you can do:

```
dlv exec ./bazel-bin/pkg/gapis -- -enable-local-files -persist -rpc localhost:8888
```

You can then use dlv commands to add breakpoints, and actually start GAPIS, e.g.:

```
(dlv) break gapis/server/server.go:228

(dlv) continue  # this actually starts gapis
```

> See delve documentation on how to specify a breakpoint location, there are
> more convenient alternatives than `path/to/file:line`

Once gapis is started, you can run a client to interact with it and hit somes
breakpoints:

```
# in another terminal
./bazel-bin/pkg/gapit <verb> -gapis-port 8888 <verb args>
```

### Debugging a client

If you want to debug a client like gapit, just start it under dlv:

```
dlv exec ./bazel-bin/pkg/gapit <verb> <verb args>
```

### Use a Delve init script

To automate a delve startup sequence, you can edit a script of delve commands to
be executed when delve starts. The script looks like:

```
# This is a comment.
break gapis/server/server.go:228

# add a second breakpoint, with a condition for it to trigger
break gapis/foo/bar.go:123
condition 2 some_variable == 42

# launch program
continue
```

And you can pass this script to delve using the `--init` flag:

```
dlv exec --init my-delve-init-script.txt <program to debug...>
```

### Integration with an IDE

If you want to interact with the debugger via your editor or IDE, be aware that
delve will think file paths start from the AGI top directory, and not your
root directory. This is very likely due to Bazel compilation. You may have to
find workarounds if you call delve from an editor/IDE which consider the file
paths to start from another directory, typically your root directory. There may
be a way to adjust using GOPATH to tell to your IDE a possible root for filename
lookups.

See the workaround for VSCode below, any help to fix it for other IDEs is very welcome!

#### Integration with VSCode and Delve

Follow these steps to use the delve debugger for Go with VSCode to debug `gapis`.

1. Make sure to complete the Golang setup above for AGI.

2. Settings file: There are two settings file(`settings.json`) that can be written.
	- Global one that applies to all projects that can be opened with `Ctrl + Shift + P` and `Preferences: Open Settings (JSON)`. 
	Add this line to ensure that you have a stable tools directory:
	`"go.toolsGopath": "<path-to-go-plugin-tools-folder>",`
	
	- Local one is under `.vscode` folder in your project folder. Create one if it does not already exist and add this line to your local settings to be able to search source code in AGI:
	`"go.gopath": "<path-to-agi-gofuse>"`,

3. Launch file: Create a `launch.json` file under the workspace directory with `Ctrl + Shift + P` and `Debug: Open launch.json`

4. Paste the following as one of the launch configurations. This will ensure that there is a launch configuration for attaching to Delve.
```
{
    ...
    "configurations": [
        ...,
        {
            "name": "Attach to Delve",
            "type": "go",
            "request": "attach",
            "mode": "remote",
            "apiVersion": 2,
            "remotePath": "",
            "cwd": "`<path-to-agi-gofuse>`",
            "dlvLoadConfig": {
                "followPointers": true,
                "maxVariableRecurse": 1,
                "maxStringLen": 120,
                "maxArrayValues": 120,
                "maxStructFields": -1
            },
            "host": <host>,
            "port": <port>,
        },
    ],
    ...
}
```
As an example, `<host>` could be `127.0.0.1` and `<port>` could be `1234`.

5. Start delve in headless mode in the AGI root folder.
```
dlv exec --headless --listen=<host>:<port> --api-version 2 ./bazel-bin/pkg/gapis -- <gapis-arguments>
```

The command below will allow using port `1234` (or any other preferred port) to connect to delve from VSCode.
```
dlv exec --headless --listen=127.0.0.1:1234 --api-version 2 ./bazel-bin/pkg/gapis -- -persist -rpc localhost:8888
```

6. Start debugging with `Debug->Start Debugging` (on Linux with `F5`) and make sure `Attach to Delve` is selected as the launch configuration.

7. Now VSCode can interact with Delve and can be used for debugging `gapis` in VSCode UI instead of the command line. Enjoy your debugging :)

This allows you to put breakpoint at any line in AGI Go source code regardless if they are handwritten, generated or in Go Standard Library. For the generated file, you can put the breakpoints under the `bazel-bin/` or `bazel-out/` folder and the debugger will still find it under the fuse directory during debugging and open it. The only downside is you will have two versions of the same file but this is the only working workaround until Go Plugin supports bazel-generated files.

## How to debug via printing message

You can use the built-in logging functions to place debug prints.

In Golang:

```go
import (
	// ...
	"github.com/google/gapid/core/log"
)

// ...
	log.E(ctx, "Here debug print, myVar: %v", myVar)
```

In C++:

```c++
#include "core/cc/log.h"

// ...
    GAPID_ERROR("Here debug print, myStr: %s", myStr)
```

The usual logging levels are available, listed for instance with `gapit -fullhelp`:

```
$ ./bazel-bin/pkg/gapit -fullhelp
...
-log-level value
	The severity to enable logs at [one of: "Verbose", "Debug", "Info", "Warning", "Error", "Fatal"] (default Info)
```

The Error level is recommended when adding debug print, to make sure it is not
filtered away.

## How to debug a replay crash

The replayer uses [breakpad](https://chromium.googlesource.com/breakpad/breakpad) to catch and optionnaly report crashes.

If you want to analyze a replay crash with a debugger, on **64 bits Android** (for other platforms, adapt as necessary):

1. Start the replayer with the `--wait-for-debugger` flag, e.g. `./gapit screenshot --gapir-args '--wait-for-debugger' mytrace.gfxtrace`.

2. Wait for the replayer to launch on the device.

3. Attach your debugger to the replayer app (`com.google.android.gapid.arm64v8a/com.google.android.gapid.ReplayerActivity`).

4. Once attached, you probably want to add a breakpoint at `CrashHandler::handleMinidump` in order to break upon a crash, before it is reported to the server.

5. When you attach, the replayer is spin-waiting in the loop defined in `core/cc/android/debugger.cpp`. To break this loop, use the debugger to set `gIsDebuggerAttached = true` before continuing execution.

Note that while you attach the debugger and setup the breakpoint, the server might timeout waiting for a gRPC connection. You may increase this timeout by editing the `gapir/client:gRPCConnectTimeout` constant.

## How to profile AGI internals

### GAPIS

The server has instrumentation to output profiling information:

```
$ ./agi/gapis --fullhelp
[...]
  -profile-pprof
	enable pprof profiling
  -profile-trace string
	write a trace to file
[...]
```

The `-profile-trace` option generates a trace that can be open in Chrome via
`chrome://tracing`, or using [Perfetto web UI](https://ui.perfetto.dev/).

The `gapit` and `agi` (UI starter) clients can pass these arguments to gapis via
`-gapis-args`, e.g.:

```
# GAPIT
./agi/gapit <verb> -gapis-args '-profile-trace my-profile-trace.out' <verb arguments>

# GAPIC
./agi/agi -gapis-args '-profile-trace my-profile-trace.out' foobar.gfxtrace
```

### On-device: GAPII, GAPIR

To profile the interceptor GAPII and the replayer GAPIR on Android devices, you
can resort to classic profiling solutions. Check the Android [system tracing
overview](https://developer.android.com/topic/performance/tracing) doc. Beside
systrace, perfetto and the Android studio profile, also note that
[Inferno](https://android.googlesource.com/platform/system/extras/+/master/simpleperf/doc/inferno.md)
makes it easy to get flamegraphs.

To profile the replayer using AGI itself, you can export a given replay into a
standalone APK (using `gapit export_replay -apk`), and profile that replay-APK
using AGI.

## Unit tests

Unit testing is achieved with separate frameworks depending on the programming
language, but they are all accessible with Bazel.

### List tests

```sh
# List all tests
bazel query 'tests(//...)'

# List all Go tests
bazel query 'kind(go_.*, tests(//...))'
# List all C++ tests
bazel query 'kind(cc_.*, tests(//...))'
```

### Run tests

```sh
# Run all the tests
bazel test tests

# Run a given test
bazel test //core/log:go_default_test
```

### Golang

Following the [regular Go test](https://golang.org/doc/code.html#Testing) setup,
tests are written as `func TestXXX(t *testing.T)` functions in `*_test.go`
files.

Adding a Go test file into Bazel is done by invoking Gazelle. The
`kokoro/presubmit/presubmit.sh` script does that for you: if you create or
remove `*_test.go` files, running the presubmit script automatically edit the
BUILD.bazel files to reflect your changes.

A few useful homemade packages:

- `github.com/google/gapid/core/assert` defines an assertion framework.

- `github.com/google/gapid/core/log` lets you create contexts for tests with
  `ctx := log.Testing(t)`

### C++

> TODO

### Java

> TODO

## Code generated at compile time

A large amount of code is generated at compile time. Code is typically generated
via APIC (API Compiler, `cmd/apic/`). APIC takes as input `.api` and `.tmpl`
files, and it generates code in another language.

```

                    +----------+
  <.api files>  --->|          |
                    |   APIC   |---> <generated files>
  <.tmpl files> --->|          |
                    +----------+

```

`.api` files are GAPIL ("graphics API language") sources. GAPIL is a
domain-specific language to specify a graphics API, it is documented in
`gapil/README.md`. AGI currently supports only Vulkan, but its ancestor GAPID
was designed to support arbitrary graphics APIs. Vulkan is described by API files
located under `gapis/api/vulkan/`, the top-level file is
`gapis/api/vulkan/vulkan.api`.

`.tmpl` files are template files. The templating language is documented in
`gapis/api/templates/README.md`. There are various template files in the project
to generate code for the interceptor, server, replayer, Vulkan layers, etc.

APIC is a GAPIL compiler, its entry-point is defined in `cmd/apic/` and the
actual compiler logic is defined in `gapil/`. In a nutshell, APIC parses the
`.api` files to gather information about the graphics API, and then instantiates
the templates in the `.tmpl` files to generate code.

### Where does the generated code end up?

The generated code is not checked under version control. It is generated at
compilation time by Bazel rules calling APIC, resulting in files that can be
seen under e.g. `bazel-bin/`.

For instance, generated C++ code for the interceptor can be found in:

```
user@machine:~/work/agi$ find -L bazel-bin -name '*_spy_*.cpp'
bazel-bin/gapii/cc/vulkan_spy_0.cpp
bazel-bin/gapii/cc/vulkan_spy_subroutines_1.cpp
bazel-bin/gapii/cc/vulkan_spy_subroutines_0.cpp
bazel-bin/gapii/cc/vulkan_spy_2.cpp
bazel-bin/gapii/cc/vulkan_spy_3.cpp
bazel-bin/gapii/cc/vulkan_spy_helpers.cpp
bazel-bin/gapii/cc/vulkan_spy_1.cpp
```

To get a unified file tree view, interleaving source files with generated files,
you can use the `cmd/gofuse` setup. `cmd/gofuse` links the generated source
files in the same directories as their siblings in the same packages/namespaces.
