README.md, before:

# Android GPU Inspector

<!-- TODO(b/155159330) Once we reach a stable release, re-enabled godoc and switch to pkg.go.dev, see https://go.dev/about#adding-a-package -->
<!-- [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/google/gapid?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/google/gapid) -->
![]() <!-- Empty image needed to have the markdown parser correctly parse the following lines -->
<img alt="Linux" src="kokoro/img/linux.png" width="20px" height="20px" hspace="2px"/>
[![Linux Build Status](https://agi-build.storage.googleapis.com/badges/build_status_linux.svg)](https://agi-build.storage.googleapis.com/badges/build_result_linux.html)
<img alt="MacOS" src="kokoro/img/macos.png" width="20px" height="20px" hspace="2px"/>
[![MacOS Build Status](https://agi-build.storage.googleapis.com/badges/build_status_macos.svg)](https://agi-build.storage.googleapis.com/badges/build_result_macos.html)
<img alt="Windows" src="kokoro/img/windows.png" width="20px" height="20px" hspace="2px"/>
[![Windows Build Status](https://agi-build.storage.googleapis.com/badges/build_status_windows.svg)](https://agi-build.storage.googleapis.com/badges/build_result_windows.html)

## About

Visit [gpuinspector.dev](https://gpuinspector.dev) for information about Android GPU Inspector.

The [developer documentation](DEVDOC.md) contains some hints for AGI
developers. See also the README files under some source directories.

## Downloads

**[Download the latest version of AGI here.](https://github.com/google/agi/releases)**

*Unstable* developer releases are [here](https://github.com/google/agi-dev-releases/releases).

## Building

**See [Building Android GPU Inspector](BUILDING.md).**

## Running the client

After building AGI, you can run the client from `<agi-root>/bazel-bin/pkg/agi`.

## Command-Line Interface

AGI exposes most of its functionality via a CLI *gapit*. You can find auto-generated documentation [here](https://gpuinspector.dev/docs/cli).

Commit message:

Clarify dependency for builds in Linux zip archive
Bug: b/151914478

README.md, after:

# Android GPU Inspector

<!-- TODO(b/155159330) Once we reach a stable release, re-enabled godoc and switch to pkg.go.dev, see https://go.dev/about#adding-a-package -->
<!-- [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/google/gapid?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/google/gapid) -->
![]() <!-- Empty image needed to have the markdown parser correctly parse the following lines -->
<img alt="Linux" src="kokoro/img/linux.png" width="20px" height="20px" hspace="2px"/>
[![Linux Build Status](https://agi-build.storage.googleapis.com/badges/build_status_linux.svg)](https://agi-build.storage.googleapis.com/badges/build_result_linux.html)
<img alt="MacOS" src="kokoro/img/macos.png" width="20px" height="20px" hspace="2px"/>
[![MacOS Build Status](https://agi-build.storage.googleapis.com/badges/build_status_macos.svg)](https://agi-build.storage.googleapis.com/badges/build_result_macos.html)
<img alt="Windows" src="kokoro/img/windows.png" width="20px" height="20px" hspace="2px"/>
[![Windows Build Status](https://agi-build.storage.googleapis.com/badges/build_status_windows.svg)](https://agi-build.storage.googleapis.com/badges/build_result_windows.html)

## About

Visit [gpuinspector.dev](https://gpuinspector.dev) for information about Android GPU Inspector.

The [developer documentation](DEVDOC.md) contains some hints for AGI
developers. See also the README files under some source directories.

## Downloads

**[Download the latest version of AGI here.](https://github.com/google/agi/releases)**

*Unstable* developer releases are [here](https://github.com/google/agi-dev-releases/releases).

> Dependency for Linux builds in zip archives: they depends on java8 and
> libwebkit2gtk. These two are marked as dependencies in the deb package, if
> you install AGI via a zip archive, make sure to also install java8 and
> libwebkit2gtk.

## Building

**See [Building Android GPU Inspector](BUILDING.md).**

## Running the client

After building AGI, you can run the client from `<agi-root>/bazel-bin/pkg/agi`.

## Command-Line Interface

AGI exposes most of its functionality via a CLI *gapit*. You can find auto-generated documentation [here](https://gpuinspector.dev/docs/cli).
