test/swarming/README.md, before:

# Swarming: capture-replay tests on real Android devices

This is a collection of scripts to run AGI tests on real Android devices.

We can access devices through Swarming, which is part of
[LUCI](https://chromium.googlesource.com/infra/infra/+/master/doc/users/services/about_luci.md),
hence the name "swarming tests".

A swarming test typically consists in installing an APK using Vulkan, and
running some `gapit` commands to capture-replay this APK. As we don't want to
include APKs in this repo, we store them on x20.

## Scripts running order

The scripts are primarly designed to run as part of Kokoro Linux builds. The
running order is:

1. The Kokoro build script `kokoro/linux/build.sh` uses `test/swarming/trigger.py` to
   schedule Swarming tests.

2. The Swarming bot runs `test/swarming/bot-harness.py`, which wraps one of the
   scripts unders `test/swarming/bot-scripts/` and makes sure to **always** turn
   off the device screen at the end of the task, even upon failure or time
   out. It is important to always turn the screen off to make sure devices can
   cool-down, otherwise the Swarming bot may become unusable.

3. The Kokoro build script uses `test/swarming/collect.py` to retrieve the
   Swarming tests results.

## How to run a Swarming test manually, outside of Kokoro

Requirements:

- LUCI tools installed, and the `LUCI_CLIENT_ROOT` environment variable set
  accordingly.

- valid Swarming/Isolate credentials.

You can trigger a Swarming test manually with:

1. Grab tests from x20:
   `x20/teams/android-graphics-tools/agi/kokoro/swarming`. Copy the `tests`
   folder under `test/swarming/`.

2. Use `./manual-run.sh tests/foobar` to trigger the foobar test in Swarming and
   collect its results.

## How to run a Swarming test on a local device

1. Grab tests from x20:
   `x20/teams/android-graphics-tools/agi/kokoro/swarming`. Copy the `tests`
   folder under `test/swarming/`.

2. Make sure you have only one Android device plugged into your host machine.

3. Use `./bot-harness.py  ${TIMEOUT} tests/foobar ${LOGDIR}` to run the foobar
   test on the device plugged in your host machine, storing logs in the
   `${LOGDIR}` directory, with a timeout limit of `${TIMEOUT}` seconds.

## Test format

A test is a folder that contains at least a `params.json` file that defines the
test parameters. This JSON must contain at least a "script" entry which value is
the name of the script to use, this script being found under
`test/swarming/bot-scripts`. Moreover, this JSON typically defines additional
parameters used by the test script.

As an example, this is a possible params.json file to use the `test/swarming/bot-scripts/benchmark.py`
script:

```
{
  "script": "benchmark.py",
  "apk": "com.example.myApp.apk",
  "package": "com.example.myApp",
  "activity": "com.example.myApp.myActivity",
  "startframe": "5",
  "numframe": "2"
}
```

This JSON can also define parameters related to how the Swarming task is
actually triggered, see the details by reading `test/swarming/trigger.py` source
code. Some noteworthy parameters:

```
{
  ...
  # List of device on which the test must be run
  "devices": [ "flame", "coral", ... ],
  # Swarming priority: lower value is higher priority
  "priority": "100",
  # Swarming task global timeout (seconds)
  "priority": "300",
  # Swarming task expiration: how long to wait to be scheduled (seconds)
  "expiration": "1200",
  ...
}
```

## Nightly results

Nightly results are accumulated over nightly runs. To achieve this, the results
file is receieved as a build input from the latest build on x20, new results are
added to it, and the new results are produced as an artifact of the nightly
build.

The results are stored in the `results.json` file. The precise format of this
JSON is defined in `test/swarming/collect.py`.

Commit message:

Migrate LUCI tools from lucy-py to luci-go
LUCI tools have been reimplemented in Go, and now only the Go version
is recommended. This update follows a request from the LUCI team.

Fetch the luci-go tools using CIPD, as recommended, and update various
flags to match the new tools.

Bug: b/159313821
Test: test/swarming/manual-run.sh

test/swarming/README.md, after:

# Swarming: capture-replay tests on real Android devices

This is a collection of scripts to run AGI tests on real Android devices.

We can access devices through Swarming, which is part of
[LUCI](https://chromium.googlesource.com/infra/infra/+/master/doc/users/services/about_luci.md),
hence the name "swarming tests".

A swarming test typically consists in installing an APK using Vulkan, and
running some `gapit` commands to capture-replay this APK. As we don't want to
include APKs in this repo, we store them on x20.

## Scripts running order

The scripts are primarly designed to run as part of Kokoro Linux builds. The
running order is:

1. The Kokoro build script `kokoro/linux/build.sh` uses `test/swarming/trigger.py` to
   schedule Swarming tests.

2. The Swarming bot runs `test/swarming/bot-harness.py`, which wraps one of the
   scripts unders `test/swarming/bot-scripts/` and makes sure to **always** turn
   off the device screen at the end of the task, even upon failure or time
   out. It is important to always turn the screen off to make sure devices can
   cool-down, otherwise the Swarming bot may become unusable.

3. The Kokoro build script uses `test/swarming/collect.py` to retrieve the
   Swarming tests results.

## How to run a Swarming test manually, outside of Kokoro

Requirements:

- LUCI `isolate` and `swarming` tools installed in a directory pointed at with
the `LUCI_ROOT` environment variable. Search for "cipd" in
`kokoro/linux/build.sh` to check how to install these tools using chromium's
[CIPD](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src.git/+/master/docs/cipd.md).

- valid Swarming/Isolate credentials: run `${LUCI_ROOT}/isolate login` to login,
and `${LUCI_ROOT}/isolate whoami` to check your local credentials.

You can trigger a Swarming test manually with:

1. Grab tests from x20:
   `x20/teams/android-graphics-tools/agi/kokoro/swarming`. Copy the `tests`
   folder under `test/swarming/`.

2. Use `./manual-run.sh tests/foobar` to trigger the foobar test in Swarming and
   collect its results.

## How to run a Swarming test on a local device

1. Grab tests from x20:
   `x20/teams/android-graphics-tools/agi/kokoro/swarming`. Copy the `tests`
   folder under `test/swarming/`.

2. Make sure you have only one Android device plugged into your host machine.

3. Use `./bot-harness.py  ${TIMEOUT} tests/foobar ${LOGDIR}` to run the foobar
   test on the device plugged in your host machine, storing logs in the
   `${LOGDIR}` directory, with a timeout limit of `${TIMEOUT}` seconds.

## Test format

A test is a folder that contains at least a `params.json` file that defines the
test parameters. This JSON must contain at least a "script" entry which value is
the name of the script to use, this script being found under
`test/swarming/bot-scripts`. Moreover, this JSON typically defines additional
parameters used by the test script.

As an example, this is a possible params.json file to use the `test/swarming/bot-scripts/benchmark.py`
script:

```
{
  "script": "benchmark.py",
  "apk": "com.example.myApp.apk",
  "package": "com.example.myApp",
  "activity": "com.example.myApp.myActivity",
  "startframe": "5",
  "numframe": "2"
}
```

This JSON can also define parameters related to how the Swarming task is
actually triggered, see the details by reading `test/swarming/trigger.py` source
code. Some noteworthy parameters:

```
{
  ...
  # List of device on which the test must be run
  "devices": [ "flame", "coral", ... ],
  # Swarming priority: lower value is higher priority
  "priority": "100",
  # Swarming task global timeout (seconds)
  "priority": "300",
  # Swarming task expiration: how long to wait to be scheduled (seconds)
  "expiration": "1200",
  ...
}
```

## Nightly results

Nightly results are accumulated over nightly runs. To achieve this, the results
file is receieved as a build input from the latest build on x20, new results are
added to it, and the new results are produced as an artifact of the nightly
build.

The results are stored in the `results.json` file. The precise format of this
JSON is defined in `test/swarming/collect.py`.
